Data files such as /etc/passwd and /etc/group are needed for normal operation.
They require an interface for applications that may use any file format.

-- Password File (User Database)
Contains fields of the struct passwd (from pwd.h)
Encrypted password is not stored here, but in a different file.
The shell field contains the login shell executable program (default /bin/sh).
User login can be prevented by keeping /dev/null or /bin/false in the shell field.
Username nobody (UID 65534) has no privileges, and username root (UID 0) has superuser privileges.
vipw command can be used to edit the password file.
Entries can be read using getpwuid(), getpwname() and getpwent().
Encrypted passwords are user passwords after a one-way encryption algorithm.
They are stored in a separate file called the shadow password file /etc/shadow
It must contain the username and encrypted password. It is not readable by most programs.

-- Group File (Group Database)
Contains fields of struct group (from grp.h)
Fields are read using getgrgid(), getgrnam(), and getgrent().
newgrp() is used to change the group ID.
In addition to the main group ID, a user can belong to upto 16 supplementary groups.
Supplementary group IDs can be changed by setgroups() and initgroups().

The method of storing user & group information and encrypted passwords depends on the platform.

Other data files are also used, for example /etc/networks and /etc/protocols.
Interfaces are similar to the password and group files (get, set, and end functions).

utmp and wtmp files keep track of users and logins/logouts, using structures.

uname function is used to return information about the host and OS, from struct utsname.
gethostname and sethostname functions are also available.

Basic time service (calendar time) in the Unix kernel counts the number of seconds since the Epoch.
time_t data type (from time.h) contains the time and date, and is returned by the time() function.
clockid_t type identifies the multiple system clocks; they can be read separately using clock_gettime().
clock_getres() is used to find the clock resolution.
Calendar time is usually stored in a structure called broken-down time (human-friendly format).
This is done by the functions gmtime() and localtime(), while mktime() is the inverse function.
Time is displayed (with string formatting) using strftime(), and the inverse function is strptime().
